Welcome to AV testing podcast your modern testing podcast your hosts Alan and Brent will be here to guide you through
Topics on testing leadership agile and anything else that comes to mind now on with the show
Hey, Brent, how's it going? It's going super Alan. I think
So there's so much going on one we're still in the middle of a pandemic
to
first ever live stream of an a B testing podcast something I think we should do much more often
Yeah
Thank you
Alan and the three for for the spontaneous change
There was a suggestion less than 10 minutes ago on you guys or something like some other podcasts live streams and edits
And I thought and in that 10 minutes, I thought oh
There's an idea. We're gonna try this
so yeah, we're doing it and
pandemic and oh
I was thinking just a minute ago that I
like I'd like to think that there are people who discover our podcast and just binge our episodes one after the other and
Are going to be sad that we don't have a guest this time
We've had guests like the last three to know for for no, I think it's I think it's just fine
But because we're live streaming everyone's our guest be our guest be
See normally I edit the singing out but now it's all here for free
So well, right
So is this is this part of it is this now like a new form strategy to to edit out nothing?
I mean, thank God. I actually wore clothes today. I
I'm not wearing pants. But so here's
Also something interesting
because we've had guests we haven't had to come up with our agendas for a while and
Because we don't have a guest and we're not used to this and we don't have a whiteboard
I don't know that we have an agenda. So this should be fun
You know, well, yeah, I think I mean the guest thing
Certainly reduced the tax on us right?
Now we now we were able to be more efficient. We don't have to
You know, it's agile, right? As the principal say we we favored communication over
Documentation. So there's one, you know, five minutes of documentation work now eliminated
I'm lying here a little bit because I did post a couple things in our one of the three slack that I thought we could
Talk about today. No. No, I want to talk about I think the same one that you're thinking of
It's how to take over the world via the PM org
Well, it's not really a PM org, but I should talk about
None of this is official and I don't know who at Unity listens to my podcast
But I can talk about this abstractly and say that due to some org changes. I
Am going to end up. Well, I should probably talk about background
So many of you know me as the hardcore software tester
Alan Page the person who wrote how we test software at Microsoft
You do know me as that but you know
I have since moved on from that because unlike some people in the testing world
I do not live in the past. I try and live in the present moment and look towards the future
That is a passive of a dig as I can make on some folks, but
Yeah, oh no the three got it for sure
so
One thing and let me just say this when I began running
Infrastructure in DevOps orgs. I thought wow
I have never had so much more control over quality as I do running a DevOps
Org and helping the team accelerate the achievement shipable quality. So that's all good and then
When I started doing air quote, I can do we're live I can do air quotes
Yeah, I can like do show and tell
Yeah, like hey, here's a cool book I got no
Also, the cool thing is we're gonna have to make a live stream
Channel if we keep this because then people could ask us questions
during
The podcast I should look at the live stream and see if there are questions there
Oh my gosh, so many things to do I was in the middle of a story
So I DevOps lots control over quality
When I joined this role in my current org I began doing program management
Well, I can't say I've ever done program management
When I took the role when I was talking to my current boss about the role
he asked hey, can you do program management and
Every time in my career when I've been asked if I can do something Alan, can you code an assembly Alan?
Can you do whatever?
My answer is always yes. Why yes, I can and then I figure it out as I go
There's a sorry, I was gonna do tangent inception, but I'm gonna stop myself
so I
spent the first
chunk of my time
Figuring out what not what program management was because I could read things about that
but what my flavor on it was and finally after
Eight or nine months in the role. I
Told my boss I said I don't really know anything about program management. I'm I'm coming clean
They said oh no problem, you know how to run systems and you're doing it and you do that well
I go. Oh, yes, that's a that's a very lean and modern testing thing
I love systems thinking and that's what I do. I figure out how all the pieces fit together. So now I
Say I have never had so much control over quality and QA testing s deading for years
I have so much control over what we deliver predictability and quality and velocity running both DevOps and
Running systems the the program management part of my job
So what the change coming up for me is I'm on paper a director of program management
We're gonna change that to director of engineering because I do more engineering work than program management
But I'm still in charge of running all of our systems and making sure that pieces all fit together of all of our different
services and and projects in flight
Going back. This is like the longest intro ever
People and you can't watch a live stream on one and a half speed. Sorry folks
so
Short story is with all that context in mind. I
Will be adding a few real like I've talked to them and they're kind of textbook program managers to my org
not Microsoft program managers, but people who manage
programs of projects
Help the team as far as I can tell accelerate the achievement of book quality if any of you
I don't know if you've read this Brent. Do you I didn't know reason to it's probably not Johanna Rothman who just writes
Book after good book after good book wrote a book called agile and lean project management, which I read
So I could understand what I was supposed to do and then pick the parts of it that I liked and did those
But if I read that book and look at what the program managers who will be working for me are doing it's textbook right there
I think they're gonna fill in the gaps that I know I have
They're going to learn to do things in the modern testing way
But the one of the topics for today and Brent is like what it's Alan ever gonna shut up
So I can talk is what I want to have a discussion about is
how
Our mission remains the same how
What advice what ideas etc should we have for?
These folks in my org, how do I take the most advantage of them blah blah blah, etc. Okay. I'm done with the preamble Brent
What are your thoughts?
Well, the first thing I was thinking well actually a
Tangent we'll have to figure out how we do Q&A
Because the stream does seem to be lagging not by seconds, but like by minutes
Again thankful I work close today
The fun part also is going to see and and probably nothing here so far is going to be edited
But for those that watch this and listen to the podcast they're gonna go Wow the podcast is way better than the live stream
Yeah
Alright back to the topic at hand like the first thing come on this is a be testing
We don't get back to the topic at hand. Just keep going. Oh, okay on that front
Have you noticed anything new about my background today?
You're in your way you're that's that's not a virtual background you are in your office at Microsoft. I am
Dude, you are so gonna get COVID. I am
Though much at a point where I don't care as as I think I mentioned
It is having it has been having a not a non trivial and
extremely negative
impact on my mental health and
Right now
Have you ever gone on taking vacation time?
Just so that everyone would leave you alone so that you could get stuff done
Nope. Nope. Oh, well I have
Actually, I have taken like we had a four-day weekend for July 4th and
Because we get every time unity there's a Monday off we get the Friday off also
I worked both Friday and Monday for I did I just don't take the days off I'm given in order to catch up on stuff
The it's not even on catch up
from me
So
survey here and we'll get back to program management in a second they did a survey at Microsoft
Maybe we would they did a survey here at Microsoft and
around impact on COVID and
turns out
60 percent of the ICS individual contributors that responded to that said oh, yeah
They are having a satisfactory work-life balance
Forty four percent of the managers said the same thing and I was recently in a one-on-one with with
my VP and
I'm like, yeah, I am so far from that
44% I can't even see them from where I stand and I invented a turned in that conversation
And I said work-life balance. Yeah, that's
That's actually relatively easy to manage
What is completely out of whack for me is the talk doing balance?
Too much talking not enough doing I think the way you put that about four or five
Episodes was too much talky not enough Dewey. Oh, yeah, and yeah
I am now
In a in a in a broader space
This is a recent change from my team where we're going into more and more
higher scope customer oriented
investigations and work and
I don't know dude. I
Am having meetings with program managers. I have never met before from teams. I didn't even know
existed
Just right after the other. So anyway, one thing that's very nice is
right now
temporarily in
this entire building I
Am the only one here. So I guess I guess you can't catch kovat if but when that second person shows up you're screwed
Well, no, so then the other thing that's nice is the fact that I have an office if I were in open space
Then I would probably still be at home
If I leave my office, I got to put on my Darth Vader mask
But other than that I'm safe here
Tangent after tangent. I won't talk about program managers distrism reminder, but I'm going to the office on Monday
I'm just going for five minutes to grab all my stuff off my desk and then I'm never returning. But yes
Yeah, I actually I
Actually last week I went home to get stuff to bring to my office
No, it's
It this is net better. All right, so
segue back to
your prior topic right your manager said hey, do you know how to
manage a
Program management. Well, he didn't ask me that he asked me
I mean, he just assumes I can manage program managers, but well and the reason why is of course
You can
Of course, I mean there's also I mean my team is
Is glue and is glue?
Well, that's I mean it's between
Program management and DevOps and my quality coaches and even docks
It's like I provide the matrix org for all of the rest of the organization
Everybody else works on shipping stuff. I helped them ship stuff safely and successfully
Okay
Yeah, I was gonna say something snarky about program management, but I've again
I was my mind based on my experience with the bastardization of the role of Microsoft be very much welcomed
What snarkiness? Yeah. Yeah because what program managers do at Microsoft is different than
It's not program management. It's just the it's a name
They've given a bunch of people doing random stuff
That sometimes is program management very often is not
Yeah, no a lot of the times
right, it's
The snarky comment I was gonna say is is essentially of course you can write a brain dead monkey could manage some program management work
Oh, absolutely, right and and I have been compared have compared I have been compared to a brain dead monkey before so that's
My target by me on the podcast I'm certain of it
So let me let me share with you
what I'm about to do and
Well, we'll see what happens in terms of the podcast
Actually, this is fascinating
So one of these buttons right if I hit share screen, I would theoretically be sharing screen and that would show up. Oh
Yeah, so I'm over the whole surprise of hey, it's a video cast now
Now I'm all about Oh what new toys
You you have seen
We're primary a podcast. So I don't know how much I should focus on this is special
I'm people gonna listen to this on next week when it comes out
Who am I kidding everyone to everyone who downloads the podcast is already watching the livecast
But someone somewhere is going to listen to the some point going man. I'm missing out
Yeah, no, actually we should look at the stats on the podcast download and see and see if we took a hit cuz if everyone's
All of our listeners are watching right now. Why would they download it's gonna go from three to two
Oddly, there are 13 of the three watching. I think some people are logged in on multiple machines
You've seen this
right a
Million times. Well, what we are actually trying to do now is push this
Further I would say right now my organization
I don't know if my mouse is coming across but we're somewhere in between data affirmed and data driven
Let me just help take a moment here to pause and help the people who are
Actually listening to the podcast and not one of the three on the on the lately announced livestream
So this is the data maturity model that Brent I think Steve Rowe came up with this, right?
No, this was primarily mine, but Steve Rowe did add data affirmed
So the four levels of data oblivious when you just you're oblivious to data data affirmed
Decisions made mostly by intuition, but you you believe this is where a lot of teams
I work with are they only believe the data if it confirms intuition
Data driven where decisions are made by intuition and data and then data centric where data analysis is core to most decisions
So we've talked about this before on the podcast drink
Yeah, but it's a very nice
graphic with with
Colors and things it's very pretty so now Brent on to your
Remembering this is a podcast that happens to have a live stream and not a video cast. Please continue. Yeah
That's that's so much of an ask for me. And I know you're aware of that
Now we think about what is the well, I'm thinking about what is the problem we're facing here. Okay, so
first and foremost, there's a common thing within the the PM org where
They won't go after
The whales right and this is because they're trying to scale right you have you have
In a lot of businesses you have, you know, just a handful of customers that are bringing in
The the most of rather revenue and now that most amount of revenue is not something that you can that your business would survive
on if
You lost everybody else
Typically if you pull together a histogram
it'll come up and it'll show as a as a head tail curve and this is a
situation where it in order to scale the focus on the head and
More often than not you'll find that between three to five to seven times
The thingies whatever you're measuring with that histogram are in the body and the tail
Then in the head so you you you really
Cannot ignore that tail
But when you have so much
manual
work as
As a requirement for moving
needles forward
You really can't scale to go in and you know
Talk to every one of those customers you have you end up focusing on the head
So here's it's around. How do we scale? Okay, the the second problem?
that we're we're working through is
Essentially confirmation bias or or
It's closer to what what is known as the Texas sharpshooter bias
Which is essentially we see a behavior with PM's that have an intuition
And it might even be a variant of data affirmed, right? They have an intuition
and then they go and scan the data for the subset of
Of data that proves their intuition
Right. Are you familiar with the Texas sharpshooter bias? I am now though. Yes. Yes
It's you think of it. They call it that way you think of it as you know
A Texan shooting at a barn and he's got his eyes closed and hey, I could do this bang bang bang bang
He he shoots shoots at the bar. Okay, and then once all of his ammunition is gone
he goes and looks at the barn and then draws the target and
And explains to everybody how look how awesome of a shot he is that that behavior is happening
Where we're at is trying to figure out
how to use the data and
Convert it to benefits of customer. I mean that's rather generic
I think everyone's trying to do that to some degree
Here is a single most interesting problem that I will be facing the next six months
Microsoft Azure for example has a lot of
And again, just as a quick reminder for everyone. Azure is like AWS or GCP. Anyway, go on
Yeah
Except Azure continuously threatens to take over AWS and no one actually talks about GCP
And as a side note IBM has one as well
That just came out of nowhere. Oh, and there's a lot of smaller ones out there too
But anyway, I'm I don't want to go into a tangent because I'm unsure where this story is going now. So
it's essentially
my mission is
essentially to
guide the PM's on
effective usage of data
to
drive better more
valuable
backlogs
The thing is mine after I got get that rolling and I've already talked with my VP
Like one of the things that's gonna happen as a result is it's gonna force a requirement on the engineering teams to be
significantly more adaptable
And that will probably create a few headaches
We in Azure we we have we operate a service
We are fairly
Agile given our size right there's there's
easily 10,000 people working on Azure
The the next thing then is going to figure out. Okay, how can I remove the
remove or significantly cut back the PM role, right if if
PM's get talented at using the data to to evaluate the
The next steps and as well as more efficiently evaluate the opportunity of those next steps
That's the biggest problem is
The other behavior we see is they go talk to a single customer and that customer is
Is a member of what you would call the vocal minority?
you'll see them executing a huge amount of
engineering resources and
Then at the end of the day not see the big the big business needles move significantly, right?
It's because yeah, you just spent half of your engineering team
working on a one-off for three customers
anyway, so let me you know that Saturday Night Live skit where
Someone's talking about something but not really the thing they think they're talking about
So let me do that with you slightly. So that's so the problem is is the
Taintedness of Microsoft a little bit here. Let me explain why so we have
You know PM is an overloaded term
program managers at Microsoft typically are some hybrid combination of
typical program management
product management and project management and those are all you know project management is
Jira shepherding I
Call it that because we don't have we just don't have project managers in our org our dev leads are perfectly capable of doing that themselves
But we do have product managers who are responsible for
Talking to the customer defining the product figured out what we need to do for customers
And we could definitely help make them more data driven and then engineering deliver on the the development work for that
what program management does in
most of the real world and in my org is
One is to help the organization to understand progress as a whole
This is where you helped me with some stats a while back to help me get a better idea on how to
The big insight there was I was trying to track velocity
But I had like hundreds of projects and Brent just without thinking about it says well
We'll just use the week started as the as the cohort and it's like oh now it's easy
I just couldn't figure out where to start. So thank you again for that to figure out what systemic problems the organization is encountering
also to make sure and in that making sure that product managers those who talk to the customers to find the product and
delivery owners the engineering leadership across the org are working together cohesively and then
Once we identify those any problems or obstacles or agile word impediments in the way product and then during our working
By or my soon to be had program small program management team
Will dive in on on those
given that lens of
Program management the way I'm running it and I think it's more typical than the than the hybrid role at Microsoft
I intend to use my program managers
much like I use my quality coaches as
agile coaches
Helping teams figure out. I have another tangent to go in in there helping teams figure out
What is blocking them like like I can't scale enough to attend team retros
But I'm hoping my program managers and quality coaches for example can
Can attend those retros help people figure out how to find their?
Problems and obstacles and impediments and then make sure they have ideas and how to improve those
Yeah, actually as I'm thinking about it. I haven't thought about it until right now, but I will
Program managers on my team. Of course, I'll probably stick them on some of the larger hairy projects that I I don't get enough time
They'll help me scale because often for that part of my role
It's just a lot of coaching some tracking some some metrics on things that I care about
But mostly a lot of coaching and helping people figure things out
That'll help me scale that quite a bit. So I there's gonna be a lot of overlap in
Mission between them and the people who are in sort of a quality coach consultant role on my team
So that's one way. I think I can use them one quick tangent
I'm gonna shut up for a minute is I just did
It was stupidly easy to do
We had some questions on like how do we get teams to not get better estimates?
That's a fool's errand but to understand
Actually, it was how do we get teams to do better planning?
Because for me, I don't care about the estimate. I care that you actually did the right planning to to reduce risk and
I did an experiment where I got six different teams to begin using story points for about six weeks
check some data on capacity and plan to work etc and
as
expected things were better and and the and the feedback from the team on
How things went and change was like over the top good
But all that happened was because they had to do story points and the team had to agree on assigning a number is they got
better at planning and I couldn't say I'm gonna do an experiment where I track how well teams are doing on improving planning because
They that would be BS
But if I call it story points and then teams are super happy and they feel like they're doing better planning and the work shows
that then all of a sudden people are excited about it, but
Doing more things like that to help teams become more
I don't want to say predictable though to come out of it, but just help them, you know
Give them more tools to stumble towards success
So anyway that reframing relensing and an example there
curious on your thoughts on that
So a big portion of what you said
to me seems
They again an exact match to
To what I'm working through
Right. I heard you mentioned that you work you're gonna put them on sort of sticky problems
right and and and
smoke jumping
Yeah, I don't have enough coffee to follow that metaphor
So so they're gonna go in and put out a fire somewhere. So we have an org of three
It's not Azure 10,000 which I could look over at the listeners over here a little ridiculous, right? So
350 engineers and at any one time there are
Right now 70 probably go into about 80 different projects in flight at once
Some of those are bigger than others and some need a little bit more corralling than I have time to scale to do
So I would love to say hey person a it looks like
Team be delivering these five projects that all work together could use a little help
Making sure they're doing the right planning and delivery
I want to understand what their obstacles are see if there's systemic problems we can fix things like that
I can put them on projects that I just don't have time. I just don't have the time to scale what to right now
so you're the the
The org you're inheriting are are they closer to sort of DevOps live site type
problems
Not a not a feature
owners, it's how
No, so, of course, I will continue to run DevOps and my and docs and other stuff other matrix orgs
but program management again going back to what I want our organization to do is is
help the team understand progress find obstacles that to progress and then velocity slash predictability and quality and
Find solutions for those over time. Some of those are just measuring things broadly across the org
Sometimes it's diving deep into part of the org to help them solve something
To help them solve a problem local to a smaller part of the org
Okay, but it's about it's about software. It's software delivery everything from
services that we update multiple times a day to
websites and SDKs
So the the reason why I asked that question is because what I didn't hear you
say is anything I want the lines of
searching for
better more valuable opportunities. So what I hear you say is
problem searching for problems and putting out the fire which is a bit reactive. Yeah, actually that's a good call out
so something you're saying I
Think I interrupted before you finish saying what you're saying to say there should be a more proactive
Aspect to this role and I think you're right. Please continue. Oh
so
I'm not gonna load up the slide but
Again, but the the message that I try to get across there is that the power
Really comes from intuition plus
data
Unfortunately as with the tech that stands today
data AI
doesn't
have the ability to
to tell you
Doesn't have the ability to construct game changers. I
Can't come up with a great example
At the moment there have been times in the past and maybe it'll slowly page load as I tell the story
But in times in the past we look at the telemetry and the scenario we targeted and
the people who are
active users
Don't align. I
Shift something out and I have a particular customer segment in mind and I see that none of those customer segments are
Using the product, but there's this whole other customer segment that is you know, sending positive feedback
actively using it and we're like, oh wait a minute we actually
we failed at building a solution for segment a
but we accidentally succeeded in building a solution for segment B and
Actually
Given that I
I've been in one conversation. We're like, wait a minute. Are we in are we targeting the completely wrong business?
In turns out that in that scenario, I guess we were we repivoted and it's thriving
Anyway, so yeah, I again, I do think that we're on the the same page
So for in a lot of regards, I'm just coming at it from a data science aspect. I
Am partnering with throughout Azure. I am partnering with
It's probably closer to ten versions of your future role Alan
But at times it feels like thousands because they send their ICPMs to me too and we're all on the same page. I
That team brings sort of a wealth of history around customer problems customer engagements customer feedback
it's the
Here's the great way of saying it
EQ and IQ
Right. How how do we get EQ and IQ?
Working together towards common goals and I will say the the program management org is often chock full of EQ
Yes
Right. The the other problem is they're also often chock full of ego and I'm sure not actually your employees
Well again, you need to take your Microsoft skewed lens off there
So if you go back to the Weinberg quote eventually, it's always a people problem
Horribly paraphrased but that's what they when I wear the program management hat. That's what I do
it's about figuring out getting people to
reflect and
Discover what it is. They're missing and make changes. I
So to push back on your pushback
I don't think I'm in a bubble when I say it's a common phenomenon in the program management org that
Several of those folks believe themselves to be the second coming of Steve Jobs
Again, those people exist in product management not in program management
Okay. So one of the problems is yeah, no, no Microsoft doesn't have a product management role
Right. So you're taking over product management. No, no, that's a whole other org
Oh
So they work and my job is to make sure that and actually the big biggest part of my job as a program manager
Hat is to make sure product and engineering are aligned and in sync
So I make sure they work together actually, it's I mean it could be luckily it's not it's just
nudging them towards the proper reflection and figuring out the right ways to work together the right ways to recognize dependencies the right way to
plan their work another example is I help them and everybody uses the word MVP and
Most of them mean different things. I one of the things
Manager hat is I help I remind them what an MVP is and what it's for
Which in what is it for?
It's to learn it's to give every feature you can to to match your competitor because if you don't have all of your competitors features
It's not an MVP
Well, yeah
What is the minimum thing we have to do in order to learn if we're heading in the right direction or not or to
Or to validate or invalidate our smallest hypothesis
Smallest
In general. Yes, the smallest amount of work we have to do to validate or invalidate our hypothesis
Well, it's not a matter of work
We have to do to learn what we need to learn to pivot or persevere, right?
Is it that so and we've talked about the concierge MVP here before so sometimes it's like let's just munch this on the back
And see if they like this. Let's put out the button
We've we even got as far as like don't even do the button that says coming soon. Just let the button 404
That's less work. If if you put if I if I
So I will freely admit I will probably continue to struggle on what is the distinction between a product and a program management
Right. We have we call it all program management
Here I have no doubt
That the that the role is served here at Microsoft. It's just under the same mantra. So
However
the if if what you
Do with your team is say look I'm gonna hold you accountable
for the ROI of the engineering org
Your job is to provide the most bit bit the the most business value
using the least amount of engineering resources as possible and
Validated value. That's the print of the MVP
like if if you ship something and
I don't want to hear a bunch of pretty speeches around
This is this is one negative thing that happens at Microsoft
every year in May June is
Is all the ship announcements come out in?
In teams have no, you know managers often have to differentiate
on
BS
things it's
It's it's an old-school
culture that's still to some degree persists here it is we celebrate
shipping not
Celebrate moving
The needle and that's the big thing that can't you celebrate both?
You can and you probably should
But they in my mind
Should not be weighted anywhere close to the same and we don't load everything because I actually
one of the things I do
to support
My alignment of product and engineering is I have a 30 minute sync meeting each week
Where I go over products at risk
Talk about what why delays are in place. I offer a little bit of coaching in that meeting
It's a way to celebrate our culture of transparency and what's going on
And a way to accelerate learning. It's all it's really more about building the culture and celebrating the culture
Than a status meeting, but I use it to help create alignment
But I also send out notes every week and so at the top of that every week is projects completed
So we celebrate completion
Weekly and we ship between these are customer impacting things
So between five and ten things a week across the org, so we celebrate that frequently
But we also celebrate another means moving the needle in a variety of different ways
Well, so it's it's an end versus a means right?
One of the I have some the last couple of months I have
doubled the size of my team and so I have a bunch of
Brand new folks never worked at Microsoft before and one of them is is
very high level and
He's sort of struggling because I think he got hired into a level of
a band too high
and and I'm like look
He put in his connect or his review as part of it. We communicate
What we're gonna go after what is our personal mission in the unity context and what is our goal?
And he's like, you know what? I am going to be really proud if at the end of the next six months
I have built a tool and
And
It's generating insights like crazy. Okay, and I'm like, okay I get that
However, I need you to understand in the band that you're in the business does not care
What the care is that you're taking on and and moving the needle
Anything else is just the means to an ends if you were a lower level. Yeah, we care because it's part of you
Maturing and growing and being part of this
Learning how to get things done in this particular culture, but at the band that he's in it's it's
Yeah, a lot of those rules go out the window because it's already expected that you know
how to do
These things
You know how to build tools, you know how to to produce software, you know how?
I'm trying to get his bar set to the correct place
Likewise, like if you take your program management team, like I said if your team it is sort of the
The subjective voice of the customer and the qualitative feedback
How do we close that loop?
The the you need EQ and IQ to really master the scenario
Says this man
I don't know that there's science that validates what I just said, but it is certainly it is a
Set of beliefs that have been baked into my experience. I think this will be a continued
I want to move towards a wrap-up here. I think this will be a continued
discussion I
Again, I want to get it's we're about helping the team manage predictability
velocity and quality and
We do that by aligning product and engineering and finding problems and solving those
So I want to be able to get you out of the Microsoft PM
box and think about it's really much more of a
agile coach and
problem solver role so but I do want to talk about
coming up is
If we're responsible for delivery
Predictability and quality the metrics we track the metrics
I track
Around that and see what you think about those because I do I did put some metrics in place and they make sense to me
And they're not driving the wrong behavior. So I like them
What metrics I said I talk about him another time. That's a teaser and speaking of teasers
I had a meeting just before I tease this on the one of the three slack
Group which you can join the short answer is I was trying to get someone to move someone to my org not a PM different
different different role I managed and
they I
Did not agree they did not get them to agree to move them
But I did get them to agree to let the employee make the choice which actually is better in my experience
They're gonna they're gonna let the the person choose whether they want to stay in their current org or move to my org
So I'm actually
Even though we don't I don't have an answer. It's still up in the air. I'm I'm happy with that
Outcome
Yeah, one of the positive things that has changed here at Microsoft if you remember back in the day
There was the no pooching role. Yeah, that was gone before I left you saw a pooching
poaching
Poaching yeah, and now it's yeah
you can and I love and this is a you know, I rank on Microsoft a little bit because
and
Honestly JW's article on why he left. It's like the the old guard are slowing down Microsoft and
And I was working for a lot of the old guard and just drove me freakin baddie towards the end
but I love that HR had the kahanas to
On their site about management said poaching was okay. They didn't call a poaching. So what happens if all my employees leave and
And
You're not a manager anymore, are you?
Yeah, no the
Right it did that same call out on nature web
Says explicitly the only way to guarantee your employees stays is
For you to ensure your environment is better than alternatives. Yep
And I love that I do too
What happens if all your employees leave? Well Darwinism kicks in that's what happens
right and
net benefit to the business
CS love II
however
however, and one last dig before we go is there's not always a good motivation to do that because of
and although stack ranking is over the
Performance review process still says if you want more money and more options
You go be the best person on a crappy team
Then go join a good team where you can learn more and deliver more ish
That was well, I don't know. Let's change. It was a hundred percent true three years ago
And as I mentioned the old guard is still there
But so I'll just I'll just plant that seed you can add one rebuttal and then we're gonna say goodbye
We can use the rebuttal
wouldn't that be great for a debate someone says and
Furthermore article 2 states that and you go ish
Mike drop. Yeah, I like I like I like doing you know going back to third grade and just you know respond with nah
I know you are but what am I? No
All right, everyone. I hope the livestream was a success
We're gonna do this again next time if you want to see the livestream
You're gonna have to go join one of the three slack group. I can go to modern testing org and find a link there and
Thanks the ten or twelve you the of the three that watched
I hope you get a chance to see or hear the hear
What it's like after I edit the scrap. Yeah, I'm puzzled. Should we be thanking them or apologizing to them actually apologizing
Yes, we're sorry
Please sorry
Please go back to watching Terminator
Yeah, or the expanse. Oh, yes. It's dances awesome
Okay. All right. Hey, thanks, Brett. See you next time